I'm going to show you a painting
technique using glaze this is an example
of the technique I'll be showing you for
this wall I used a light yellow and
mixing with the glaze I used a khaki
golden brown it gives an old-world look
it's great for hiding imperfections on
the wall
seesee to care for I applied the glaze
on this example using a cloth and I'll
show you how I do that
there are many products you can choose
from today on the market here's just a
few examples this first one here is
clear I would mix one part of paint to
four parts of this glaze just keep in
mind that it goes a long way so you
don't need much the other two I already
have paint and glaze I chose a couple
antiquing browns I like the old world
look so I chose a few shades of that
it's very important when you're glazing
your base color is always going to be
the lightest of the colors that you
choose you're going from light to dark
and you have to use satin semi-gloss or
gloss this medium the glaze will not
slide over flat pane it's too porous so
you will not be able to create the
effect you're looking for
check out the paint store they have many
pamphlets they're giving you different
color combinations in what the effect
will be and the bookstore has a lot of
different books out there too here I
just painted a little section on the
wall for this demonstration I chose a
brighter sage I don't know if you can
see that I'm going to antique it with
one of the Browns that I chose and I'm
going to use the same technique as I
showed you in the beginning with the
cloth just be careful which cloth you
choose you don't want something that
will deposit went onto the walls
and let's get started for this
demonstration you want to wear a pair of
gloves because you are going to use a
cloth that's a little messy you just
want to grab the cloth in your hand you
don't really want to smooth it out you
want it more texture so you would dip it
into your glazing you don't want to
saturate it completely just dip it in
just to get a little glazing on to the
rag what you're doing is working your
way down when you get into the corner
just be careful that you don't deposit a
large amount in one section
go back over just don't overwork it too
much the glaze will start to dry it's
very easy
what you're doing is just flying blaze
and wiping a little bit off the texture
of the wall will also contribute to the
design that you get you'll notice in a
lot of the Italian restaurants they have
the stucco walls and they use this
effect to give it a more old-world look
you can check that out when you're out
for dinner some night
and there you go very easy just you can
step back so you can get a better lock
but it just gives any antique look and
there you go